# PBParetoFrontPlotter

Given the data of all Pareto optimal solutions of an MSPB problem it plots the Pareto Front along with the Nash and Coalitionally fair solutions. It also plots 2D projections of any 2 stakeholder utilities. These plots are saved in PDF files.

## Project file structure

The project is structured as follows.

- ParetoPlot.py: The Python code that receives and MSPB problem description and solutions and plots its Pareto front and solutions, and 2D prohections.
- JuliaDataFiles: This directory contains the MSPB problem description data files (these files were generated using project [PBtoJulia](https://github.com/marcserr/PBtoJulia), and are the input MSPB problem data used in project [PBParetoFront](https://github.com/marcserr/PBParetoFront) to find the Pareto front). This data is necessary to calculate stakeholder contributions. We provide the data for 3 PB processes (namely, Barcelona, Warszawa23, and Warszawa24).
- results/data: This directory contains the solutions to the MSPB Problems in JuliaDataFiles, these files are obtained using project [PBParetoFront](https://github.com/marcserr/PBParetoFront). We provide the Pareto-optimal solutions for 3 PB processes (namely, Barcelona, Warszawa23, and Warszawa24).
- results/plots: This directory contains the 4 PDF files generated by ParetoPlot.py for each of the 3 PB processes (Barcelona, Warszawa23, and Warszawa24).

## Dependencies

To run the code you need to install the Python packages Matplotlib [(installation instructions)](https://matplotlib.org/stable/install/index.html) and Scipy [(installation instructions)](https://scipy.org/install/).

The code has been correctly executed in a computer with MacOS 26.1 using Python 3.10.

## How to run the code

Open a terminal window in the directory of the project. And run the Python script as follows:

> python3 ParetoPlot.py --pb=pb_name --theta=num --real_sol=bin

The only argument that is required is pb, this is the name of the PB process you want to plot the Pareto front of. Therefore, when calling the script pb_name must be one of the following ones:

Barcelona
Warszawa23
Warszawa24

The theta argument is optional. Theta is the minimum stakehdolder contribution percentage (see our paper to learn more about theta) over the budget. If provided num must be a number between 0 and 1/3. By default, theta is 0.2.

The real_sol argument is optional, if provided bin must be a boolean. real_sol is used to signal whether the actual solution the PB processes had is plotted or not. By default, this argument is False.

If everything goes well, ParetoPlor.py will create PDF plots in the results/plots/pb_name directory. For example, for Barcelona the plots will be in results/plots/Barcelona. In the case of Barcelona, the 4 plot pdfs will be named:

- Barcelona.pdf: 3D plot of the Pareto front and solutions.
- Barcelona_pargov.pdf: 2D projection of the Pareto front and solutions over the axis representing participants and government utilities.
- Barcelona_parnpar.pdf: 2D projection of the Pareto front and solutions over the axis representing participants and non-participant utilities.
- Barcelona_govnpar.pdf: 2D projection of the Pareto front and solutions over the axis representing the government and non-participant utilities